layout: post
title:  "Agility Potion +1"
date: 2017-07-10 08:03:00 +0200
categories: coding
author_name: Artur Szott
author_url : /author/arturszott
author_avatar: arturszott
show_avatar : true
read_time : 4
feature_image: posts/2017-07-on-personal-development/growth.jpg
show_related_posts: false
square_related: recommend-growth


It does not surprise me anymore how people usually react to obstacles. Exasperation or disappointment are typical feelings. We really wanted something and that one thing has just stopped us making that happen. I get angry too. What matters to me is how long it takes for me to recover.

I know I can work a little on my reactions, but I've found way more productive to restore my focus and objectively look around how the situation really looks. Are my feelings right? Of course, those are my feelings. Am I exaggerating? Usually. What happens next? I see two options:

- I can perceive the obstacle as one that prevents me from moving forward and abandon the task until issue will be solved
- I can focus on the parts of the task that might be done around the obstacle moving forward as much as it is possible

  The problem with the first option is that I am creating artificial delay. Nothing will happen until obstacle will be solved and I can resume the work where I stopped. To visualise, If the work till finding obstacle took me 4 weeks, waiting takes another 3 weeks and then I need another 5 weeks to finish what I've started it sums up to 12 weeks until something can be accomplished. Just because I perceived the task in binary: blocked or unblocked. It might be true, but I've seen that in most of my cases it's just illusion.

Second option gives me the ability to moving forward. There is always a chance that while working on some other parts of the task, the one blocked will be resolved in that time. In that scenario I'm getting back to previously blocked issue, finish it and accomplish the task. In best case instead of 12 days everything is done in 9 days.

All we had to change was the attitude. Doing that one time is like using Agility Potion +1. You will feel the effect and  great excitement for the first time. It surely depends on the potion strength too!

I consider work flexibility to be as important as other skills. Taking care of the code quality or increasing the performance means a little if I am not working on the task at all. This does not mean that I am less productive in general. There is always a possibility to have another thing to do while waiting for someone else to finish their job. This although means that providing value to the customers will be delayed and that's exactly the opposite of the primary goal of my job.

My friend, [Łukasz Przybył][lprzybyl-blog-post] once mentioned to me that it's good to always have  side project of some sort if you really can't move forward with current assignment. This helps you to switch context without spending too much time on looking for something else to do. I've found it helpful and you might too in case when there is no way to drink any potion.

Constant practice, experiments and honing your craft provides satisfaction and feeling of achievement. Drinking potions like Agility one will give you the idea of the range of possibilities for every situations you encounter. And who know, maybe you will also start brewing potions on your own?

[lprzybyl]: http://techblog.holidaycheck.com/author/luprzybyl/
